For two puddings in 2 pint (1.2 litre) basins, or four in 1 pint (570mL) basins. 

This has proved to be one of the most popular recipes I've ever produced and if you're making it for the first time, I hope you'll agree. I actually prefer to eat our puddings around Christmas-time rather than keep them for the following year when they don't taste as good. Made in october or november they are perfect by Christmas (nevertheless still wonderful if you have to make them at the last minute!). 

Ingredients:
225g de beurre
110g de farine
7g de levure chimique
225g de biscotte broyée en chapelure
1g de noix de muscade
1g de cannelle
450g de sucre
450g de raisin sec
575g de groseilles
100g de citron ou orange confite
50g de poudre d'amande
1 pomme mixée
4 oeufs
50g de rhum
150ml de vin rouge
150ml de guiness

Ingredients remaniés:
113g de beurre
55g de farine
3.5g de levure chimique
112g de biscotte broyée en chapelure
0.5g de noix de muscade
0.5g de cannelle
225g de sucre
510g de raisin sec
50g de citron ou orange confite
25g de poudre d'amande
1/2 pomme mixée
2 oeufs
25g de rhum
75ml de vin rouge
75ml de guiness

Ingredients 1e test:
\ingredient 113g de beurre
\ingredient 55g de farine
\ingredient 4g de levure chimique
\ingredient 112g de biscotte broyée en chapelure
\ingredient 0.5g de noix de muscade
\ingredient 1g de cannelle
\ingredient 225g de sucre
\ingredient 510g de raisin sec
\ingredient 50g de citron ou orange confite
\ingredient 25g de poudre d'amande
\ingredient 60g de pomme mixée (~1/2)
\ingredient 2 oeufs
\ingredient 25g de rhum
\ingredient 75ml de vin rouge
\ingredient 75ml de guiness

Truc enlevés:
	1 heaped teaspoon ground mixed spice

Mettez le beurre fondu, la farine, la levure, les biscottes mixées, le sucre et les épices (cannelle, noix de muscade) dans un bol et mélangez le tout à l'aide de la feuille. Ajoutez alors les fruits secs, la poudre d'amande, la pomme et l'orange confite.

Dans un autre bol, mélangez les oeufs, le rhum, le vin rouge et la guiness. Fouttez pour mélanger les oeufs puis ajoutez dans le bol du robot.

Beurrez et farinez le récipient qui servira à cuire le gâteau. versez la préparation. Couvrez avec le couvercle du tupperware et laissez reposer pendant toute une nuit (ou 24h dans mon cas).

Le lendemain, ajoutez du papier cuisson et fermez avec une ficelle pour bien isoler. Coupez le surplus de papier une fois scellé.

Dans une grand marmite, mettez le tupperware et ajoutez de l'eau chaude jusqu'à la limite du tupperware (il ne faut pas le noyer). Portez à ébullition (environ 30 minutes à feu moyen/fort -- 5/9), puis baissez le feu jusqu'à juste maintenir l'ébullition mais pas plus (4/9). Faites alors cuire 8h en tout (en comptant les 30 premières minutes).


Put the suet, flour, breadcrumbs, spices and sugar in a bowl, mixing in each ingredient thorougly before adding the next. Then gradually mix in all the dried fruit, peel and nuts, and follow these with the apple and the orange and lemon rind. 

In a different bowl, beat up the eggs, and mix the rum, barley wine and stout into them. Empty all this over the dry ingredients -- and then stir very hard indeed (it's vital this mixing, so recruit some help if necessary). You may find you need a bit more stout -- it's not possible to be exact with the liquid quantities, but the mixture should be of a good dropping consistency (that is, it should fall from the spoon when tapped sharply against the side of the bowl). 

After the mixing, cover the bowl with a cloth and leave it overnight. The next day, grease two (or four) pudding basins and pack the mixture into them right to the top. Cover each basin with a square of greaseproof paper, with a square pudding cloth on top. Tie these round the rims of the bowls with string, then tie the corners of the cloth together on top. 

Steam the puddings for 8 hours -- keeping an eye on the water now and then to make sure it doesn't boil away. When cooked and cooled, remove the papier and cloths and replace with a fresh lot. Store in a cool dry place and, when ready to eat, steam for 2 hours. 

Commentaires additionnels de Brigitte:
    You will find the Shredded suet and other items in the étranger aile at Leclerc.
    Barley wine can be replaced by any red wine and I don’t always put rum in it.
    Stout can be Guinness!
    You’ll need string and greaseproof paper, “papier sulfurisé”
    When the pudding is cooked let it go cold and put a new layer of papier sulfurisé over the container + secure it with string/ ficelle 
    The cooked Christmas puddings can be kept in the cooking bowl  or well sealed container for up to a year so long as it’s wrapped in papier sulfurisé and tightly secured with string!
    Sometimes I just leave it in the fridge to eat later in the year!
    You should make it now as it will mature in the sealed bowl in a cupboard until next Christmas! I’ve done this only twice as once people know it’s close by it gets eaten very quickly!
    The sealed puddings in their bowls can cook in a large saucepan with the water up to almost the rim of the bowl, (sealed with papier sulfurisé and string)Once it’s boiled for 15/20 minutes turn the heat down to slow simmer then just let it simmer for 4/5 hours. Top up  boiling water level frequently so it dosent dry out!